Hello everyone.
My name is Fernando Medina Corey, and welcome to my AWS
Developer course, An Introduction to AWS Lambda.
I'm excited to get you up and running with tools and examples that will help
you move some of your functional code to the cloud. In this course, I'll
introduce you to AWS Lambda and demonstrate several ways you can use Lambda to
power your own development projects. Building these examples will help you
understand how you can write function code that doesn't require you to manage
a server infrastructure.
Now,
keep in mind that I've completely redone this course from its original
version, so you'll see a lot of new updated examples on using the AWS
console and working with some of the most recent features and services
in AWS, as well as some of the most modern ways to do serverless
application development with AWS Lambda. So let's go ahead and get
started. In this module, we'll be looking at the evolution of
serverless functions.
We'll start by comparing serverless and more traditional architectures just
so we can understand some of the differences between them.
This will help us understand what serverless functions are,
and also some of the benefits and the drawbacks that they have.
Next,
we'll take a look at cloud infrastructure providers like AWS and
their main competitors. And at the end of the module,
we'll look at some of the projects that we'll be building and how
exactly we're going to be building them inside of AWS.
So thanks for joining me, and let's go ahead and get started.
In order to understand serverless functions,
you need to first take a step back and learn a little bit about
how we arrived here. In the beginning of time,
or at least near the beginning of UNIX timestamps, to build an
application meant we had to manage everything from the metal
machine running our code to the code itself.
What this meant was that it took much longer to get
a project from start to finish,
so we're going to take a quick look at what's changed since then.
So let's take a look at serverless versus traditional architectures.
We'll start in the era of IBM and the mainframe, and then briefly move
into Apple and others developing personal computing.
After that,
we'll look at VMware and the jump into operating system virtualization
before we move over to AWS and the advent of the cloud.
Then finally,
we'll take a look at AWS Lambda and how the more modern context of
serverless architectures fits in with where we are now.
So, let's start with mainframes.
In the mainframe era, the full process of building applications might take years.
First you had to secure some space for your enterprise hardware, then
the personnel that you needed to install it, and to maintain it, as
well as the software that would work with it, because not all software
would work with all hardware,
Then you had to also have the costs of all the support staff,
the hardware, and the electricity as another thing you had to manage and keep
in mind as you're going to go forward with your development.
So this meant that this entire situation was highly inflexible
and you were pretty locked into those expenses,
so you better hope you planned everything right.
But with the advent of non‑mainframe servers and personal computers,
the provisioning of compute power became more distributed.
Servers that you could set up in a room or a closet in months or
weeks rather than a warehouse in a few years became the next
stage of computational evolution.
Now this led to lower barriers to entry,
meaning that you could get started quite easily compared to the mainframe era.
You also were able to do things that reduced costs in comparison to
that earlier era because you didn't have to dedicate so many
personnel and all the hardware in space,
as well as all the electricity, to that single purpose for compute.
Now, this meant that there was increased distribution and
democratization of being able to use this technology,
and I think this is a key step on the way toward serverless applications.
But one of the next important points that helped enable
this is virtualization and hypervisors.
Virtualization, or operating system virtualization, was something
similar in that it helped us abstract away some of the traditional
problems with computing by having multiple operating systems running
on the same physical hardware.
Now, this allowed us to do things like running a gaming application
in a virtual machine on top of a physical server,
simultaneous with maybe running a database application,
another virtual machine, and potentially something like an email
server in another virtual machine on that server.
So this helped us split up the actual physical hardware
from multiple purposes so that when it wasn't being used
for one application or another,
we could actually split up its capacity and spread that
around between different use cases.
Now,
this is a key part of what happens next because I think this
really enabled us to get to the cloud, or thinking about things
like Amazon EC2, or Elastic Compute Cloud.
EC2 is really the logical extension of this virtualization where Amazon
decided to take a bunch of physical servers themselves and put it into
their own data centers, or the cloud in this case is what we might call
it, and they turn those physical machines into a bunch of virtual
machines that then people like you and I could go rent for pennies
rather than dollars.
And in this way, we'd save ourselves quite a bit of money
if we weren't really dedicated to having these physical
machines around all the time.
So why spend thousands to rent a server for a new
project when you could spend a few bucks,
test something out, and scale it further if your success called for that.
Instead of managing physical servers,
we got to manage virtual ones that should behave more or less the same
way as any other virtual machine that we're using.
So, by now you can start to see a trend with this short history.
Whenever you can strip something of the equation by implementing mainframes,
renting physical servers, or managing the hardware itself, people seem to
flock there to save themselves time and focus on things that matter more
to the developer or the business as a whole.
Now, one thing that continues to be a persistent challenge for developers
is managing server configuration and infrastructure.
Now, even with virtualized, standardized servers,
it can be a challenge to provision our virtual machines for heavy traffic loads,
deal with operating system configurations, or manage software updates and
patches that are required to keep our applications safe.
So this is where serverless comes in.
Now when you think of serverless, as you might have guessed,
this doesn't mean there are no servers.
It means that you, as a developer,
don't have to think as much about the servers that your code is
running on. With the serverless model, everything from security
updates to scaling ends up being managed for you.
So what are serverless functions specifically? Well,
you can think of them as event driven to start.
Whenever a serverless function is running,
it's running only in response to some event that's triggering it.
Now this might be something like a file upload in an application,
or maybe an API request coming in from an API endpoint in a front end.
Now there's lots of different possibilities,
including things like IoT and streaming applications with lots of
data coming in, but any of these things could be considered events
that then trigger some code to run in response to them in order to
address whatever those events are.
Now serverless functions are also going to be code focused, so
rather than managing all the infrastructure surrounding all of
the code that we're writing,
we're hopefully going to do a lot more writing of the business and
application logic and the purpose of our application,
rather than having to manage all of the infrastructure that helps enable that.
Also, serverless functions will be run on managed machines.
Now this means that they'll be run on something like AWS's hardware and
maybe AWS's virtualized operating systems, and potentially,
in this case with Lambda, inside of containers that
live on those virtual machines.
But, that entire three steps of layers that I just
said is actually managed by AWS,
and we can focus on the code that we're writing and that's running on
top of that rather than the underlying infrastructure. So, let's take a look at a few examples of events in the next video.